README.md, before:

# Nairobi GNU/Linux Users Group blog
This is the repository which hosts the code for the [Nairobi GNU/Linux Users Group blog](http://nairobilug.or.ke).  We wanted a fun, nerdy and democratic way to give our community an online presence, so here we are.

## Wanna build it?
In order to build this, you need to have [Pelican](http://blog.getpelican.com/) installed.  The easiest way to do this is to use Python virtual environments; `virtualenv` will work, but it's recommended to use `virtualenv-wrapper` (a set of extensions to `virtualenv`).

For reference, a list of commonly-used distro package names is:

  - Arch Linux: `python-virtualenvwrapper`

If your distro isn't listed, you'll have to do a bit of homework (and then make a pull request to fix these docs).

#### Create a virtualenv
Once you have `virtualenv-wrapper` installed, create a virtual environment to hold Pelican and its dependencies:

    mkvirtualenv -p `which python2` nairobilug
    workon nairobilug

This creates a virtual environment where Python is explicitly set to version 2, and then activates it.  If you want to exit the virtual environment, you just type `deactivate`.

#### Install Pelican and friends
Use `pip` to install the list of dependencies into your virtual environment:

    pip install -r https://raw.github.com/nairobilug/nairobilug.or.ke/master/requirements.txt

#### GENERATE BLAWG
Navigate to where you cloned the [repo](http://github.com/nairobilug/nairobilug.or.ke) and then use Pelican to build it:

    pelican -s pelican.conf.py content -o output

This takes the Markdown files from the `content` folder and generates static HTML pages inside the `output` directory.  That's it.  No MySQL, no PHP, etc...

#### It works, SHIPIT!!!!11
You can use any web server to view the generated HTML.  For example, Python's builtin simple HTTP server:

    cd output
    python -m SimpleHTTPServer

And now you should see the blog at: http://localhost:8000

## Workflow for blog posts
If you're interested in writing a blog post for the site, you need to:

  - Fork the [repo](http://github.com/nairobilug/nairobilug.or.ke)
  - Hack hack hack
  - Push the changes to your repo; preferably to a topic branch, like `why-i-love-linux`
  - Make a pull request against the `master` branch

## Contact
If you have any questions, drop by #nairobilug on Freenode.  Happy blogging!

Commit message:

Update Readme.md to include the Pelican AUR option
Added an installation note for Arch Linux users.
You can install Pelican from the AUR using an AUR helper such as Packer, too.

README.md, after:

# Nairobi GNU/Linux Users Group blog
This is the repository which hosts the code for the [Nairobi GNU/Linux Users Group blog](http://nairobilug.or.ke).  We wanted a fun, nerdy and democratic way to give our community an online presence, so here we are.

## Wanna build it?
In order to build this, you need to have [Pelican](http://blog.getpelican.com/) installed.  The easiest way to do this is to use Python virtual environments; `virtualenv` will work, but it's recommended to use `virtualenv-wrapper` (a set of extensions to `virtualenv`).

##Extra note for Arch Linux users:

An easier way of installing Pelican is from the AUR. Use the AUR helper Packer and get it cooking:

    packer -Si pelican
    packer -S --noedit pelican
    
The first command checks for information and dependencies that will be installed when you set up Pelican from the AUR.
The second command installs Pelican from the AUR, and it will not prompt you to edit the PKGBUILD before the package is built (note the option --noedit).
Note that with Packer, it automatically pulls in all the dependencies needed to build the package from AUR.
In this usecase, it would be similar to downloading the PKGBUILD from AUR and running:

    makepkg -c -s PKGBUILD
    
On the PKGBUILD. The -c flag tells makepkg to clean up after itself, and -S tells it to satisfy all dependencies automatically.    

For reference, a list of commonly-used distro package names is:

  - Arch Linux: `python-virtualenvwrapper`

If your distro isn't listed, you'll have to do a bit of homework (and then make a pull request to fix these docs).

#### Create a virtualenv
Once you have `virtualenv-wrapper` installed, create a virtual environment to hold Pelican and its dependencies:

    mkvirtualenv -p `which python2` nairobilug
    workon nairobilug

This creates a virtual environment where Python is explicitly set to version 2, and then activates it.  If you want to exit the virtual environment, you just type `deactivate`.

#### Install Pelican and friends
Use `pip` to install the list of dependencies into your virtual environment:

    pip install -r https://raw.github.com/nairobilug/nairobilug.or.ke/master/requirements.txt

#### GENERATE BLAWG
Navigate to where you cloned the [repo](http://github.com/nairobilug/nairobilug.or.ke) and then use Pelican to build it:

    pelican -s pelican.conf.py content -o output

This takes the Markdown files from the `content` folder and generates static HTML pages inside the `output` directory.  That's it.  No MySQL, no PHP, etc...

#### It works, SHIPIT!!!!11
You can use any web server to view the generated HTML.  For example, Python's builtin simple HTTP server:

    cd output
    python -m SimpleHTTPServer

And now you should see the blog at: http://localhost:8000

## Workflow for blog posts
If you're interested in writing a blog post for the site, you need to:

  - Fork the [repo](http://github.com/nairobilug/nairobilug.or.ke)
  - Hack hack hack
  - Push the changes to your repo; preferably to a topic branch, like `why-i-love-linux`
  - Make a pull request against the `master` branch

## Contact
If you have any questions, drop by #nairobilug on Freenode.  Happy blogging!
